# spring-graalvm-service

Pet project to test Spring GraalVM - this project has features that we'll commonly find in a production repository: rest
endpoints, database, logging, flyway.

This repository contains the required configuration to build and run the same project in a standard jdk11 container and
using a GraalVM native image built to run inside oraclelinux:8-slim.

# Pre-requisites

* Maven (tested with version 3.6.3)
* JDK 11 (tested with AdoptOpenJDK distribution)
* Docker
* Create a database called demo in PostgreSQL (can be started running `docker-compose up database`).

# Note

Apparently Flyway still doesn't support GraalVM ([link to the issue](https://github.com/flyway/flyway/issues/2927)).

Therefore it's disabled in `docker-compose` configuration for GraalVM service, it's necessary to run jar version
beforehand in order to create the database structure.

# How to run tests

Ain't nobody got time to write unit tests for a pet project.
You can use postman collection `spring-graalvm-service.postman_collection.json` to test the API manually.
You could also run performance test using jmeter. Note: these tests fully clean-up DB before starting.

`jmeter -n -t performance_test.jmx -l {result-file-name}.jtl`

# How to build

## Native Service

`./native-image/build-native-image.sh`

This generates a new docker image using `oraclelinux:8-slim` as base which is running a native image generated by
GraalVM with the help of `native-image-maven-plugin` and `spring-aot-maven-plugin`.

Can be run using `docker-compose up native-service`

## Jar Service

`./jar/build-jar-image.sh`

This generates a new docker image using `openjdk11:alpine` as base which is running a `.jar` with this service.

Can be run using `docker-compose up jar-service`

